# Movie-Recommendation-System
Assignment to implement a movie recommendation system from scratch without using major libraries or neural networks

## Manual execution:
```bash
Python recommender.py -d DIRECTORY -n N -s METRIC -a ALGORITHM -i INPUT_ID
```
Directory may only be ‘ml-latest-small’ or ‘ml-latest’, otherwise the script is terminated. Please refer to Big_Data_report.pdf on 6. Results and Analysis / Data selection and processing efficiency as running on ‘ml-latest’ will take too much time.
Input id should be within the range of the dataset, any other id won’t work and the script will be terminated. The same applies to metric and algorithm.
## Real time execution:
```bash
Python preprocess -d DIRECTORY
```
Directory may only be ‘ml-latest-small’ or ‘ml-latest’, otherwise the script is terminated. Please refer to Big_Data_report.pdf on 6. Results and Analysis / Data selection and processing efficiency as running on ‘ml-latest’ will take too much time. / Output file configuration and consistency offers details about the files generated by the preprocess script.
```bash
Python recommender.py -d ‘real_system’ -n N -s METRIC -a ALGORITHM -i INPUT_ID
```
Input id should be within the range of the subset used to generate the files, which is 25. Any other id won’t work and the script will be terminated. Please refer to Big_Data_report.pdf on 5. Real System to find out more about this selection.
Here we use the word ‘custom’ instead of specifying any dataset, as to utilize the files generated by the preprocess script.
